Some devices will be necessary to fully be able to hack.

* [[Drivers]] on Linux : 802.11 stack -> mac80211 is the winner of the race in linux
world.

= Card =
Recommended Cards : Alfa AWUS052NH, AWUS051NH v2

What is important when buying the card is the chipset and it uses the driver.

== Driver's Features? ==
- Monitor mode
- Packet injection

== Packet injection ==
Aircrack-ng uses osdep library.

== What chipset ? ==
The author proposes the following:
- Ralink (RT2X00) : It has USB support
- Realtek (R8187)
- Atheros (AR5XXX, AR9XXX)
- Intel Pro Wireless (iwlwifi)

For exemple, my chipset for the moment does not support 802.11ac.

== Transmit Power (TX) ==
Transmiting - Milliwatts(mW) or dBm.  Atheros-based cards like the Alfa AWUS306H holds raw TX
power medal: 1000mW (30dBm).

== Sensitivity ==
Receiving - bBm relative to 1 mW. The more the negative the better.

== Antenna Support ==

== Ressources ==
https://www.fcc.gov/general/fcc-id-search-page
http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Devices/
= Antennas =
Magnetic-mount and base-stations

== Omnidirectional ==
CSL - 12 dBi - less expensive
TP-Link
Base-stations is enough for me, Magnetic-mount is to put on top of my car roof.

== Bidirectional ==
16dBi 2.4GHz Yagi antenne
TP-LINK 2.4GHz 24dBi Grid Parabolic Antenna

= RF Amplifiers =
Not for the moment

= Cellular Data Cards =
Globalsat Bu 353s4 Usb Récepteur GPS

= What to buy ? =
I am have to by the following component:

- An SD Card so that I could install all the software in my BeagleBone
- The pineable router
- A new wifi that is fully compatible
- A few usb sticks

Time to be aware of the stuff I reall need



