= Original card =
This is my wifi card :
$ lspci -vnn
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4331 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4331] (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Apple Inc. AirPort Extreme [106b:00d6]
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 17
        Memory at a0600000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: wl
        Kernel modules: bcma, wl

It seems that the chipset used by my wifi is Broadcom bcm43xx. It is supported
by airodump for linux but not fully for aireplay for linux.

This is the current driver that seems to get me into trouble:
$ sudo lshw -C network
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: BCM4331 802.11a/b/g/n
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wlp3s0
       version: 02
       serial: 68:a8:6d:3b:6a:f4
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl0 driverversion=6.30.223.248 (r487574) latency=0 wireless=IEEE 802.11abg
       resources: irq:17 memory:a0600000-a0603fff

$ lspci -nkk |grep -A2 0280
03:00.0 0280: 14e4:4331 (rev 02)
        Subsystem: 106b:00d6
        Kernel driver in use: wl

$ modinfo wl
filename:       /lib/modules/4.4.0-22-generic/updates/dkms/wl.ko
license:        MIXED/Proprietary
srcversion:     4DDC5FCDB1E30F7DFDCA530
alias:          pci:v*d*sv*sd*bc02sc80i*
depends:        cfg80211
vermagic:       4.4.0-22-generic SMP mod_unload modversions
parm:           passivemode:int
parm:           wl_txq_thresh:int
parm:           oneonly:int
parm:           piomode:int
parm:           instance_base:int
parm:           nompc:int
parm:           intf_name:string

All available drivers for my wireless are available here:
$ find /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/net/wireless -name '*.ko'

And there are plenty

= Update the driver =

Following the description provided here :
http://linuxwireless.sipsolutions.net/en/users/Drivers/b43/

$ lspci -vnn -d 14e4:
02:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM57765 Gigabit Ethernet PCIe [14e4:16b4] (rev 10)
        Subsystem: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM57765 Gigabit Ethernet PCIe [14e4:16b4]
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 16
        Memory at a0400000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=64K]
        Memory at a0410000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=64K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: tg3
        Kernel modules: tg3

02:00.1 SD Host controller [0805]: Broadcom Corporation BCM57765/57785 SDXC/MMC Card Reader [14e4:16bc] (rev 10) (prog-if 01)
        Subsystem: Broadcom Corporation BCM57765/57785 SDXC/MMC Card Reader [14e4:0000]
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 17
        Memory at a0420000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=64K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: sdhci-pci
        Kernel modules: sdhci_pci

03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4331 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4331] (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Apple Inc. AirPort Extreme [106b:00d6]
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 17
        Memory at a0600000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: wl
        Kernel modules: bcma, wl

ok my is supported [14e4:4331] and indeed the alternative is wl

sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer

Following the instructions I have found here :
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx#b43%20-%20Internet%20access

I just need to install the b43 (not the b43legacy). Note that is an Open-source
driver as opposed to the proprietary one provided by Broadcom.

So, it says :
For Chip ID BCM 4306 (rev 03), 4309, 4311, 4312, 4318, 4322, 4331, 43224 and 43225.

which is my case.

In their side, they propose to restart my computer or to load the driver.  Guess
what I will try first...

sudo modprobe -r wl
sudo modprobe -r brcmsmac bcma
sudo modprobe -r b43 bcma

Now I am trying to load my specific driver:
sudo modprobe b43

It seems okay:
$ lspci -vnn -d 14e4:
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4331 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4331] (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Apple Inc. AirPort Extreme [106b:00d6]
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 17
        Memory at a0600000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: bcma-pci-bridge
        Kernel modules: bcma, wl

I think that as it was said in the website it chooses the most appropriate.

Back to work and if it works I will definitively update my system so that it
always reboot with the new driver.

Great it works, it starts to monitor my wifi. Very happy.

Now it is time to document the permanent modification.

echo "blacklist wl" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-broadcom-wireless.conf
I have done the above command but I want to make sure that I am not doing a big
mistake.

I have seen this file:
$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist brcm80211
blacklist brcmfmac
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist bcma

As a result,  I have added to my file blacklist bcmwl

Ok, Now I am updating the drivers cache. But I have no idea how to check that's
okay.

sudo update-initramfs -u

So we go ahead and we remove the driver:
sudo apt-get purge bcmwl-kernel-source

Nice work, it has removed from the /etc/modprobe.d the blacklit file.

= Extern card =
Manifacturer : Alfa
Model        : AWUS036NH
Modes        : 802.11b/g/n
Chipset      : RT3070

== Check that the driver is not already installed ==

I am struggeling.

$ lsusb
Bus 001 Device 009: ID 148f:3070 Ralink Technology, Corp. RT2870/RT3070 Wireless Adapter

$ ifconfig
wlx00c0ca84927f Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:c0:ca:84:92:7f  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

It seems that it is installed by default... OJALA
